A TEACHER (application user) has to assess the abilities of CHILDren under their care. This ASSESSMENT may be one of several ASSESSMENT-TYPEs  -- it can take the form of Anecdotal Records, checklists (inc. group assessments), rating scales.
 
Each assessment record will contain the following header information: {school name, "Anecdotal Record", child's name, date, child's age (yy/mm), setting, time, observer name}.
 
An anecdotal record contains: {header information}, incident (free text).
 
A checklist may be for one of several categories. An example checklist for Fine-Motor Skills  is: {header information}, (Yes/No/Not Seen) Cuts paper, Pastes with a finger, Pours from a pitcher, Copies a circle from a drawing, Draws a straight line, Uses finger to pick up smaller objects, Draws a person with three parts.
 
We might fill out several checklists simultaneously using a group assessment. An example group assessment form for Gross Motor-Skills, "Group Assessment", "Three-Year-Olds", {header information inc. names (Henry, Ed, Jo, Vicki, Cari, Deb)}, (Yes/No/Not Seen) Catches ball with arms extended, Throws ball underhanded, Completes forward somersault, Rides tricycle skillfully, Throws ball without losing balance, Hops on one foot.
 
Alternatively, instead of yes/no checks, we may use rating scales. An example of a Social/Emotional Rating Scale: {header information}, Behavior (Never, Sometimes, Usually Always), Shows increased willingness to cooperate, Is patient and conscientious, Expresses anger verbally rather than physically, Has strong desire to please, Is eager to make friends and develop strong friendships, Respects property rights of others.
 
This information is accompanied by age ranges where this behaviour would be expected to be observed. These behaviours could be listed in the order of the age they are expected to be seen, or grouped by category, sorted alphabetically etc. 
 
When the teacher observes some behaviour or other of interest, she makes a note of the date and time and and the situation.  This information is used by the teacher during sessions and is compiled into a report for the child, printed and given to the parent at the end of term. 
 
At any time there will be a number of expected behaviours yet to be observed.  Sometimes, a child will be observed specifically as having difficulty with a task, in which case a note must be made for a follow-up observation. These follow-up observations should also be included in the list, prompting the teacher, And in particular a reminder must be generated on the follow-up date.
 
Throughout the term, the teacher compiles the notes into a REPORT, which shows which observations were made on which dates. At the end of the term the report is completed and a copy is given to the child's parent.

We need to use IT to manage the workflow with the aim of 1. reducing paperwork 2. increasing consistency between teachers 3. reducing the risk of being found at fault by OFSTED.

There is an app to do this already, but the preschools cannot afford the licence. This is to be a free implementation.

The desired output of the system would be similar to the report currently sent home at the end of term, which is compiled by hand, and the current set of hand-written notes.

Note there is a business rule that, on entry to the preschool, all teachers depost their mobile phones in a box.  Therefore this app does not need to work on a smartphone. The MVP should work on a tablet; the target platform will be a Chromebook. 

Tech notes: as this project ia all about learning AWS, observe the following:
     - For your web services use Amazon Lambda.
     - For static files just use S3.
     - For the database use MySQL.
     - For email and other notifications use Amazon SES.